[Music]
hey have you ever wanted to take a dive
into the deepest parts of the ocean well
today you're gonna have this opportunity
now how good are you at holding your
breath not that good well not to worry
hop aboard my submersible craft and join
me in the voyage to the depths ready ooh
let's dive right now just below the
surface you see that life is thriving
here fish and marine animals abound and
hey there swimmers are waving at us but
we won't be staying here for long
bye-bye
at 65 feet there's a whole new world
opening before your eyes shallow coral
reefs are standing beautifully not far
from the shore and hey there are people
here again it's scuba divers this time
though what a pressure isn't kind of
divers without special equipment 130
feet is the depths where we say goodbye
even to recreational scuba divers it's
the maximum allowed for them take care
guys 200 feet and here's the first Orca
these whales inhabit the relatively
shallow waters of almost every sea and
ocean in the world did you know that
they're the apex predators by the way it
means they have no natural enemies and
no one can take them down at 230 feet we
meet whale sharks the largest known fish
species weighing up to 60 tons and
they're also quite long livers well yeah
I guess their livers are long at that
but actually it's about their life
expectancy they can live about a hundred
thirty years now look outside if you're
a scuba diver it's a real pro because at
330 feet they'll have to be very
cautious not to get decompression
sickness it occurs if you rise too
quickly to the surface and if you're
lucky you can also see a Giant Pacific
octopus it dwells in cool waters
starting this deep and going down as far
as six thousand six hundred feet and now
we're
during the dark part of the ocean at 490
feet just 1% of the light from the
surface reaches us all the rest is
absorbed by water everything that's
deeper will get darker and darker still
oh look at about 660 feet
there's a giant oarfish circling our
submersible these creatures are believed
to be the source of all sea serpent
sightings and also a lot of alliteration
sometimes they swim up to the surface
and freak out sailors and swimmers no
wonder these fish can reach 36 feet in
length enough to scare the heck out of
me for example okay now we're at 980
feet and wait what's that huge and
gangling thing out there oh I get it
it's a Japanese spider crab why a spider
you ask well just look at those legs and
the answer will come to you without
further prompts by the way there's
almost nothing more to them than legs
the body of such a crab is normally just
one and a half feet across going deeper
now and at 1640 feet you're going to see
the last of the blue whales no not
really the last of them I mean that's
the deepest they can swim they don't
really need to dive that deep for food
which they have in abundance in
shallower waters but they still can I
guess it's just for the sake of showing
how awesome they are after all they're
the largest creatures in the history of
earth both in the sea and on land Shh
you hear this these are the sounds fin
whales are making to talk to their
friends many miles away they can do this
thanks to the so far channel or deep sea
channel that generally starts at 1970
feet but can vary and depth it's a layer
of water where the speed of sound is at
its minimum and sound waves can go
thousands of miles before disappearing
at the depth of 2,700 23 feet we have
reached the point where the Burj Khalifa
the tallest building in the world would
not even show its tip on the surface if
it were put under water now we're
entering the really interesting part of
the ocean where no sunlight reaches us
and strange creatures dwell one of those
is the giant squid yes that legendary
type it inhabits the depths of two
thousand nine hundred fifty feet
just imagine the creature with eyes the
size of frisbees sperm whales hunt down
these beasts but they certainly can
fight back what a sight it would be to
see such an encounter and that's where
pitch darkness finally falls on us the
midnight zone the pressure here is so
huge that if you somehow end up being
here without a submersible well you'll
simply be crushed in a couple of seconds
and that without seeing a thing - not
the best of prospects anyway at 3,600
feet
there's West Mata one of the deepest
ocean volcanoes in the world its last
eruption was in 2009 and it was even
filmed by a remotely operated vehicle
4,200 feet down below and we see the
ferocious great white sharks these
ultimate predators feel great as such a
depth their eyesight is rather poor and
they navigate by sand so they really
don't need sunlight to hunt down their
prey I don't see you but I'll still eat
you also the leatherback turtles the
largest turtles in the world dive at the
same death I wonder if they do it to
tease the great whites Oh see those huge
Nets that's because we're now at the
depth of 4900 feet where the catch off
fishing method is used the nets are here
to be dragged along the ocean floor
catching everything unfortunate enough
to be caught I'll let you decide how
detrimental this is to the ocean life
here at 6,000 feet if we were in the
Grand Canyon
we'd be sitting at its lowest and
deepest point imagine that all the
crevasses have been thoroughly filled
with water and you'll get the perfect
picture now if we're really careful
at the depth of 6600 feet we'll be able
to see the black dragon fish a
nightmarish creature that dwells in the
deep and dark parts of the ocean and
trust me it's better off staying right
here it looks like something from a
horror movie
and I'd rather it never cross my path at
7400 feet we'll be saying goodbye to
sperm whales this is the deepest point
they can dive and frankly they have no
real business at such a depth
maybe they hunt the black dragon fish of
course or it hunts them now the
difference in size is too big
sperm whales can reach 62 feet in length
which makes them the largest toothed
whales in the world not many creatures
can counter that it's good that our
submersible has a powerful floodlight
without it we wouldn't have been able to
see the astonishing beauty of the
deep-sea coral reefs located at the
depth of nine thousand nine hundred feet
they can be found in every ocean and
it's a pity they can't be seen without
special deep-sea diving equipment okay
going deeper still and at twelve
thousand one hundred feet we reach the
average depth of the world ocean from
now on the journey into the real depths
begins the general ocean floor has been
passed so now it's time to delve into
the abyss I won't tell you not to be
afraid because the scariest creatures of
the deep dwell here below the midnight
zone and it doesn't end there the
pressure on the upper limit of the abyss
at 13,000 100 feet is like a whole
regiment of elephants stomping on you
not that you'd have the time to feel it
though now at 15,000 feet the monsters
out of your worst nightmares pop up
anglerfish for example will scare the
heck out of anyone it's long and crooked
teeth along with a growth on its head
that lures the prey is enough to instill
fear even in the bravest but perhaps
even more terrible is the creature
called the black swallower
it's an eel-like beast that has a very
stretchy stomach and it can swallow prey
that's twice its size
I don't know about you but I'd rather
switch off the lights not to see
anything this deep in the ocean what you
want to see it all alright if you insist
look down below and you're going to see
the deepest shipwreck ever found SS Rio
Grande in the South Atlantic sunk in
1941 and went as low as eighteen
thousand nine hundred feet no wonder it
was only found fifty-five years later
and now the deepest and darkest part of
the ocean begins we're diving into the
Mariana Trench officially it begins at
about nineteen thousand seven hundred
feet deep it's both the least explored
and the most fascinating area for the
scientists and adventurers alike what
lies at the bottom of it well we're
about to see but well we're not there
yet I'll show you something else
for example here's the deepest fish ever
found it's called a snail fish and it
dwells at 26,000 feet its body is
translucent so you can actually see
right through its skin well I must say
I'm glad we didn't turn off the lights
after all this little guy is
surprisingly cute for a creature that
can withstand such pressure going lower
and deeper you won't see any other kind
of fish or vertebrate animal whatsoever
the pressure is just too much for such
creatures but there are shrimps and
other invertebrates
not to mention microbes that can dwell
even in the deepest part of the ocean
and that part is the Challenger Deep
it's the bottom of the Mariana Trench
and its depth is thirty-five thousand
eight hundred fifty three feet yes we've
arrived at the very bottom of the earth
few people have been here and very
little is known about it yet but
scientists aren't going to stop and
there's hope we'll soon find out what
secrets the depths of the ocean Hall hey
if you learn something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
a friend but hey don't go deep diving
just yet we have over 2,000 cool videos
for you to check out just click on this
left or right video and enjoy stay on
the bright side of life